<pre>
  CIP: 4
  Title: Multi-Out Transactions
  Author: PoCC/rico666 <bots@cryptoguru.org>
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
  Comments-URI: https://github.com/PoC-Consortium/CIPs/wiki/Comments:CIP-0004
  Status: Active
  Type: Hard Fork
  Created: 2018-04-26
  Implemented-Since: 2.2.0
</pre>

==Abstract==

There is a scalability issue with blockchains in general and it
becomes increasingly more difficult to have efficient faucets or
efficient way to issue a transaction and serve several people at once.
Multi-Out transactions in Burst take advantage of an attachment data
field which they use for specifying a list of recipients and amounts
(Multi-Out) or just recipients (Multi-Out Same) keeping overhead to a
minimum.

==Motivation==

A regular Burst transaction (Ordinary Payment) takes at least 176
bytes of space in the block chain. This header contains various
necessary information like timestamp, signature, recipient, amount
etc.

This ordinary transaction can have an attachment - often used for
messages - for arbitrary additional data. Multi-Out transactions use
this attachment to define a very compacted list of recipients
requiring only 16 byte per recipient (Multi-Out) or even 8 byte
(Multi-Out Same)

Effectively the space requirements per effective transaction (sending
some amount from A to B) is up to 11 times smaller (multi-out) or 22
times smaller (multi-out same) than a ordinary transaction.

With combination of dynamic transaction fees and multi-out + multi-out
same transactions, the maximum transaction per second (a.k.a "tps")
Burst will able to achieve has jumped from 1 tps to 80 tps.

==Specification==

A Multi-Out transaction can define up to 64 recipients and the
individual amounts they shall receive in 64 pairs of 8-byte data,
where

    <Id1><amountFor-Id1><Id2><amountFor-Id2>....

A Multi-Out Same transaction can define up to 128 recipients who will
receive all the same amount (defined in the transaction header - same
place as for an ordinary transaction) like this

    <Id1><Id2><Id3>.....

The Ids are the regular numeric Ids of accounts. For both types the
additional constraint applies that a minimum of 2 recipients is
required and no recipient Ids can be duplicate.

===Compatibility===

This is a hard forking change, thus breaks compatibility with old
fully-validating node. It should not be deployed without widespread
consensus.

===Memory-Related Parameters===

# maximum multi out recipients
# maximum multi same out recipients

== Copyright ==

This document is placed in the public domain.
