<pre>
  CIP: 1
  Title: Dynamic BRS Node Capabilities
  Author: PoCC/rico666 <bots@cryptoguru.org>
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
  Comments-URI: https://github.com/PoC-Consortium/CIPs/wiki/Comments:CIP-0001
  Status: Draft
  Type: Process
  Created: 2018-01-25
</pre>

==Abstract==

This document specifies a dynamic parameter space for BRS nodes,
contrary to some hard-coded values of the current NRS/pre-BRS
implementation. It covers computational resources available to BRS
nodes, such as computational and memory capacity.

==Motivation==

In the wake of the July 2017 spam attacks to the Burstcoin network,
"wallets" (more precisely: the NRS implementation) were given a hard
limit of how many unconfirmed transactions to hold in memory. Before
this, the number of unconfirmed transactions was not limited. This
caused a potential memory DoS-vulnerability which the author(s) of the
spam attack exploited: By flooding the network with thousands of
transactions, nodes eventually ran out of memory and crashed.

While leaving an unlimited parameter space is a bad idea, hard-capping
this parameter also does not serve the network best, because it
neglects various node configurations and their various
capabilities. In short: some nodes may have much more resources
available than others and if a node operator decides to make these
resources available, (lack of) software configuration should not
prevent this. The configuration of the BRS should allow to map these
capabilities to the real constraints of these nodes, or those the node
operators would like to provide.

==Specification==

===Memory-Related Parameters===

# maximum number of unconfirmed transactions

===Network-Related Parameters===

# maximum API answer threshold

===Computation-Related Parameters===

# maximum CPU cores used
# GPU support enabled

== References ==

* https://github.com/PoC-Consortium/burstcoin/blob/master/conf/brs-default.properties

== Copyright ==

This document is placed in the public domain.
