<pre>
  CIP: 2
  Title: Quadruple Block Size
  Author: PoCC/rico666 <bots@cryptoguru.org>
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
  Comments-URI: https://github.com/PoC-Consortium/CIPs/wiki/Comments:CIP-0002
  Status: Active
  Type: Hard Fork
  Created: 2018-01-26
</pre>

==Abstract==

This CIP proposes a block size growth intended to to be better able to
cope with varying transactional load on the Burst blockchain and other
technological improvements for the foreseeable future.

The proposed change results in a maximum block size of moderate 175KB,
yet allows in combination with Multi-Out Same to serve over 19000
recipients per block.

==Motivation==

The original Burst has 255 transactions per block, which is on average
every 240 seconds, resulting in an effective tx capacity of 1.0625
tx/s. This is insufficient by any standard.

Raising the block size 4-fold, together with other changes in the
protocoll (such as the more efficient Multi-Out transactions - see
[[cip-0004.mediawiki|CIP4]] will allow us to raise tx capacity up to
80 tx/s


==Specification==

The original block size of Burstcoin derives from the number of
transactions per block (255) and a given size per transaction (176
bytes are taken as reference for the "Ordinary Payment" type of
transaction).

This results in a block size of 255 * 176 = 44800 bytes

Any transaction requiring more than 176 bytes (such as a payment with
an attached message to it) results in lowering the total tx capacity
of the blockchain. Say a transaction including a message has around
1100 bytes, then there is only space for 44 such transactions in the
block.

The proposed change rises this limit 4-fold, by specifying 1020
transactions instead of 255. As a direct result, the maximum block
size is 1020 * 176 = 179520 bytes

Again, it's possible to add either 1020 transactions each of the size
176 bytes (ordinary payments) or - say - 149 Multi-Out Same
transactions each with 128 recipients (176+1+1024 bytes per tx) each
and 3 ordinary payments.

===Compatibility===

This is a hard forking change, thus breaks compatibility with old
fully-validating node. It should not be deployed without widespread
consensus.

== Copyright ==

This document is placed in the public domain.
